#### Short Video Script
##### Introduction
Hey there my name is Haruday, and i am a second year student to be more precise in the 4th semester doing my Bachelors in Computer Science from Chitkara University, Solan (H.P) India. 
##### What are you?
Talking about myself I am a guy who tries to work hard constantly for betterment of myself, and to be a better human and I try to do the things I think will be of great good for my future.
##### Interests
Talking about my interests,
- I like reading  Philosophical Books or should i say listening to their audiobook version.
- I also love to watch animated movies and series. 
- And I have a passion for technology. And try to constantly gain more and more knowledge about the same.
##### Experience 
Now talking about my experience
- I have been a CORE member of CSI (club) of my univeristy.
- And I'm currently a member of Competitive Programming domain in GDSC of my university.
- Being a member of these clubs I have been in organization teams of many events held in the institue 
	- *for eg.* there was a coding competition organized by GDSC at our campus and we in the CP team were the incharge of that.
- So yeah I do have experience working with a team.
##### Experience leading team or project
As for my experience in leading a project,
 Me and my friends are working on a project as a team and I am the one leading our team.
###### Problems faced as leading a team.
- One of the problems I faced was making the other team members do there work and be punctual about that.
	- The reason for that can be that they were not invested in the topic or they just wanted to slack off like most of the human tends to.
###### Solving problems 
- Now whenever we were stuck at a problem or had a decision to make about the project we used to have a group talk and yeah most of the problems were solved that way.
- And for making a decision as we were a team we made most of the decisions in a collective manner.

##### Motivation to run a GDSC club
###### Have I been part of the community before?
Answer for your question is yes . There is GDSC at our institution and its been 9 months since I became member of it.
###### What inspires you to run a community.
- I as a student of computer science thrives to be a good developer. And I believe many students and developers fell the same. So my main aim being a Lead would be to organize study jams, workshops and competitons in my institute so that the students can learn something new or gain better understanding of technology they are familiar with.
- And I also want the students to be more familiar with Open-Source as it can be very benificial for them and can boost there knowledge set.
	- So I plan to organize workshops regarding that also, so that whoever gets insterested in contributing can make good contributions to the community.
- And making a community where everyone grow their knowledge by learning in pubic with others.
- Talking about my personal gain, being a lead of GDSC I think I will be learning many things as me and my team works to make a good community at our institution.
- So yeah this is what inspires me to be a GDSC leader.
*if another person is choosen to be the lead I will be happy as long as they try to do the work which can make students knowledge grow.*

##### Experience in technology
Now talking about my experience in technology
**What developer technology do you find most interesting and why?**
I'm currently learning Web Development, so technologies which interest me mainly comprise of web technologies like javascript, typescript (superset of js), ReactJs, NodeJs etc. 
And i'm planning to learn GoLang in near future for making more efficient backend services than NodeJs primarily due to a great concurrency model it have.
**What role does technology have in community?**
 Well technology have become on of the most important part of our community. We humans living in this generation cannot imagine life without use of technology in our day to day life.
 And I believe this dependency of humans on technology is going to grow more and more.
**How have you shared your experiences with technology products and platforms with others.**
I have recommended many of my friends the platforms, products that I use regularly, for example: Leetcode is a great platform to solve problems and improve your problem solving skills, and products like Obsidian (note taking app) is a very good app for taking notes in markdown format. And Neovim as a text/code editor that I use for writing code and many more...
**In what ways are your academic studies integrating/exploring technology?**
Well as I'm doing Bachelor's in Computer Science so almost all the subjects we study during a semester are related to technology and focuses on introducing us to new or well established technologies used in the industry. And I will say that they do help in providing the basic grasp of the topics.