## Computer System Architecture

#### Control Unit of Basic Computer System

```
000 => 0
001 => 1
010 => 2
011 => 3
100 => 4
101 => 5
110 => 6
111 => 7
```
- Control is divided into further two types

##### Timing and Control

timing of the registers int the basic computer is controlled by a master
clock generator the clock pulses are applied to all flip flops and 
registers in the system including the flip flops and the ... .
the clock pulses do not change the state of a register unless the 
register is enabled by a control signal

- control signals are generated in a control unit and provide control inputs
  for the multiplexers in the common bus in the processor registor, and Micro 
  Operation for the accumulator.

*control organization is categorized in*
1. Hardware Control
2. Micro programmed Control

**Hardware Control**:
- the control logic is implemented with gates, decoders and other digital circuits.
- it has the advantage that it can be optimised to produce a fast mode of operation.
- it require changes in Hardware if the design has to me modified or changed.

**Micro programmed controller**:
- the control information is stored in a *control memory*.
- the control memory is programmed is configured to initiate the required seqeuence of 
  micro operations, any change or modification can be done by updating the micro-program in
  control memory.

**Block DIagram of the control Unit**

Block DIagram of the control Unit consist of 
- two decoders
- one sequence counter.
- number of controlled logic gates.

an instruction read from memory is placed in instruction registor.

*$15^{th}$ Ibit*

it is transferred to a flip-flop deseginated by the symobol I.

*$12-14$ bit*

input to a 3-8 decoder give an otutput to Do to D7 (It is the decimal equivalnet of the 
binary value of the corresponding code)

*$0-11$ bits*

applied to the control logic gates

**$4$ Bit sequence conuter**

counts from 0 to 15 

- the ouptut of the counter are decoded into 16 timing signals *To through T15*
- sequence counter can be incremented or cleared synchrounously.
- most of the time *Sc* (sequence counter) is incremented to provide sequence of timing signals
  out of 4 is to 16 decoder.
  - once in a while the counter is cleared to 0, causing the next active timing signal to be *To*

