## Computer System architecture
Every Computer Organization consists of 
- Processor registers
- Instruction in code format
Instructions are stored in once section of memory and data in another.
- For a memory unit of 4096 => **12** address lines($2^{12}$)
- Instruction code consists of *16* bits format
	- **12  bits** for address of *operand* and
	- **4 bits** for *opcode*
		- $2^4$  possible operations with *4* bit of opcode.
#### How it performs the task
- Control reads a *16* bit instruction from the program portion of memory and uses *12* bits to reads the address of the instruction from where to read a *16* bit operand from the data portion of the memory.
- Then executes operations specified by the opcode.
- Computers having single processor register usually assigns it as the **Accumulator**.
- The operation is perfomed with the memory operand and the content of accumulator.
- *if the operation doesn't need an operand from the memory*
	- The rest of the bits can be used for some other purpose.
	- *e.g.* Operations like 
		- **clear accumulator**
		- **complement accumulator**
		- **imcrement or decrement accumulator**
	- Operates on data stored in accumulator register.

**Imediate operand**
- When the second part of the instruction code specifies an *operand*(data itself) then the instruction is said to have an immediate operand.
**Direct Address**
- When the second part of the instruction code specifies an address of the operand then the instruction is said to have an direct address.
**Indirect Address**
- When the second part of the instruction code designates an address of a memory word in which an address of the operand is found.

 ==In the instruction format *1* bit or *16 th* bit is used to distinguish b.w. direct and indirect address.==
- $16^{th}$ -> mode bit (I).
	- I = 0 => direct address.
	- I = 1 => in-direct address.
#### Address and Effective Address
**Effective address** is the address where the operand actually is placed.